docs/getting-started/index.md, before:

# Getting Started

Welcome to LLM Compressor! This section will guide you through the process of installing the library, compressing your first model, and deploying it with vLLM for faster, more efficient inference.

LLM Compressor makes it simple to optimize large language models for deployment, offering various quantization techniques that help you find the perfect balance between model quality, performance, and resource efficiency.

## Quick Start Guides

Follow the guides below to get started with LLM Compressor and optimize your models for production deployment.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-lightbulb-on:{ .lg .middle } Why LLM Compressor?

    ---

    Learn about the benefits of model optimization and how LLM Compressor helps reduce costs and improve performance.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Why LLM Compressor](why-llmcompressor.md)

- :material-package-variant:{ .lg .middle } Installation

    ---

    Learn how to install LLM Compressor using pip or from source.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Installation Guide](install.md)

- :material-memory:{ .lg .middle } Compress Your Model

    ---

    Learn how to apply quantization to your models using different algorithms and formats.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Compression Guide](compress.md)

- :material-rocket-launch:{ .lg .middle } Deploy with vLLM

    ---

    Deploy your compressed model for efficient inference using vLLM.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Deployment Guide](deploy.md)

- :material-rocket-launch:{ .lg .middle } FAQ

    ---

    View the most frequently asked questions for LLM Compressor.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: FAQ](faq.md)

</div>

Commit message:

[Docs] Reorganize + Additional Guides (#2379)
SUMMARY:
- Add choosing a model
- Add choosing a dataset
- Re-organize to set-up a step-by-step compression guide
- Additional clean-up and organization

Sample Doc Generation:
https://vllm--2379.org.readthedocs.build/projects/llm-compressor/en/2379/

---------

Signed-off-by: Dipika Sikka <ds3822@columbia.edu>
Co-authored-by: Brian Dellabetta <brian-dellabetta@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/getting-started/index.md, after:

# Getting Started

This section will guide you through the process of installing the library, compressing your first model, and deploying it with vLLM for faster, more efficient inference.

LLM Compressor makes it simple to optimize large language models for deployment, offering various quantization techniques that help you find the perfect balance between model quality, performance, and resource efficiency.

## Quick Start Guides

Follow the guides below to get started with LLM Compressor and optimize your models for production deployment.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-lightbulb-on:{ .lg .middle } Why LLM Compressor?

    ---

    Learn about the benefits of model optimization and how LLM Compressor helps reduce costs and improve performance.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Why LLM Compressor](../steps/why-llmcompressor.md)

- :material-package-variant:{ .lg .middle } Installation

    ---

    Learn how to install LLM Compressor using pip or from source.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Installation Guide](install.md)

- :material-memory:{ .lg .middle } Compress Your Model

    ---

    Learn how to compress your model using different algorithms and formats with a step-by-step walkthrough

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Compression Guide](../steps/choosing-model.md)

- :material-rocket-launch:{ .lg .middle } Deploy with vLLM

    ---

    Deploy your compressed model for efficient inference using vLLM.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Deployment Guide](../steps/deploy.md)

- :material-rocket-launch:{ .lg .middle } FAQ

    ---

    View the most frequently asked questions for LLM Compressor.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: FAQ](../faq/faq.md)

</div>
